# 2021年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试（甲卷）

[TOC]

## 第一部分 阅读理解（共两节, 满分40分）

### 第一节（共15小题；每小题2分, 满分30分）

阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出最佳选项。

###### A

Take a view, the Landscape(风景)Photographer of the Year Award, was the idea of Charlie Waite, one of today’s most respected landscape photographers. Each year, the high standard of entries has shown that the Awards are the perfect platform to showcase the very best photography of the British landscape. Take a view is a desirable annual competition for photographers from all corners of the UK and beyond.
|||
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| Mike Shepherd<br/>(2011)<br/>***Skiddaw in Winter***<br/>Cumbria, England | It was an extremely cold winter’s evening and freezing fog hung in the air. I climbed to the top of a small rise and realised that the mist was little more than a few feet deep, and though it was only a short climb, I found myself completely above it and looking at a wonderfully clear view of Skiddaw with the sum setting in the west. I used classical techniques, translated from my college days spent in the darkroom into Photoshop, to achieve the black-and-white image(图像). |
| Timothy Smith<br/>(2014)<br/>***Macclesfield Forest***<br/>Cheshire, England | I was back in my home town of Macclesfield to take some winter images. Walking up a path through the forest towards Shutlingsloe, a local high point, I came across a small clearing and immediately noticed the dead yellow grasses set against the fresh snow. The small pine added to the interest and I placed it centrally to take the view from the foreground right through into the forest. |

#### Who would most probably enter for Take a view?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A.| Writers.   |
|B. |Photographers.     |
|C.| Painters.    |
|D. |Tourists.|

#### What do the works by Shepherd and Smith have in common?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A.| They are winter images.|
|B. |They are in black and white.|
|C. |They show mountainous scenes.|
|D. |They focus on snow-covered forests.|

#### Where can the text be found?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A. |In a history book.   |
|B.| In a novel.     |
|C.| In an art magazine.  |
|D. |In a biography.|

###### B

Port Lympne Reserve, which runs a *breeding*(繁育) programme, has welcomed the arrival of a rare black *rhino calf*(犀牛幼崽). When the tiny creature arrived on January 31, she became the 40th black rhino to be born at the reserve. And officials at Port Lympne were delighted with the new arrival, especially as black rhinos are known for being difficult to breed in *captivity*(圈养). 

Paul Beer, head of rhino section at Port Lympne, said: “Obviously we’re all absolutely delighted to welcome another calf to our black rhino family. She’s healthy, strong and already eager to play and explore. Her mother, Solio, is a first-time mum and she is doing a fantastic job. It’s still a little too cold for them to go out into the open, but as soon as the weather warms up, I have no doubt that the little one will be out and about exploring and playing every day.”

The adorable female calf is the second black rhino born this year at the reserve, but it is too early to tell if the calves will make good candidates to be returned to protected areas of the wild. The first rhino to be born at Port Lympne arrived on January 5 to first-time mother Kisima and weighed about 32 kg. His mother, grandmother and great grandmother were all born at the reserve and still live there.

According to the World Wildlife Fund, the global black rhino population has dropped as low as 5500, giving the rhinos a “critically endangered” status.

#### Which of the following best describes the breeding programme? 

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A.| Costly.   |
|B. |Controversial.  |
|C. |Ambitious.  |
|D. |Successful.|

#### What does Paul Beer say about the new-born rhino? 

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A. |She loves staying with her mother.   |
|B. |She dislikes outdoor activities.|
|C. |She is in good condition.       |
|D. |She is sensitive to heat.|

#### What similar experience do Solio and Kisima have? 

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A. |They had their first born in January.    |
|B. |They enjoyed exploring new places. |
|C. |They lived with their grandmothers. |
|D.| They were brought to the reserve young.|

#### What can be inferred about Porn Lympne Reserve? 

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A.| The rhino section will be open to the public. |
|B. |It aims to control the number of the animals|
|C.|It will continue to work with the World Wildlife Fund.|
|D. |Some of its rhinos may be sent to the protected wild areas.|

###### C

When I was 9, we packed up our home in Los Angeles and arrived at Heathrow, London on a gray January morning. Everyone in the family settled quickly into the city except me. Without my beloved beaches and endless blue-sky days, I felt at a loss and out of place. Until I made a discovery.

Southbank, at an eastern bend in the Thames, is the center of British skateboarding, where the continuous crashing of skateboards left your head ringing. I loved it. I soon made friends with the local skaters. We spoke our own language. And my favorite: Safe. Safe meant cool. It meant hello. It meant don’t worry about it. Once, when trying a certain trick on the *beam*(横杆), I fell onto the stones, damaging a nerve in my hand, and Toby came over, helping me up: Safe, man. Safe. A few minutes later, when I landed the trick, my friends beat their boards loud, shouting: “Safe! Safe! Safe!” And that’s what mattered — landing tricks, being a good skater.

When I was 15, my family moved to Washington. I tried skateboarding there, but the locals were far less welcoming. Within a couple of years, I’d given it up.

When I returned to London in 2004, I found myself wandering down to Southbank, spending hours there. I’ve traveled back several times since, most recently this past spring. The day was cold but clear; tourists and Londoners stopped to watch the skaters. *Weaving*(穿梭)among the kids who rushed by on their boards, I found my way to the beam. Then a rail-thin teenager, in a baggy white T-shirt, *skidded*(滑)up to the beam. He sat next to me. He seemed not to notice the man next to him. But soon I caught a few of his glances. “I was a local here 20 years ago,” I told him. Then, slowly, he began to nod his head. “Safe, man. Safe.”

“Yeah,” I said. “Safe.”

#### What can we learn about the author soon after he moved to London? 
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A. |He felt disappointed.      
B.| He gave up his hobby.
C.| He liked the weather there. 
D.| He had disagreements with his family.

#### What do the underlined words “Safe! Safe! Safe!” probably mean? 
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Be careful!   
B. |Well done!   
C.| No way!   
D.| Don’t worry! 

#### Why did the author like to spend time in Southbank when he returned to London? 
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| To join the skateboarding.   
B.| To make new friends.
C. |To learn more tricks. 
D. |To relive his childhood days

#### What message does the author seem to convey in the text?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A. |Children should learn a second language. |
|B.| Sport is necessary for children’s health.|
|C. |Children need a sense of belonging |
|D.| Seeing the world is a must for children.|

###### D

Who is a genius? This question has greatly interested humankind for centuries.

Let’s state clearly: Einstein was a genius. His face is almost the international symbol for genius. But we want to go beyond one man and explore the nature of genius itself. Why is it that some people are so much more intelligent or creative than the rest of us? And who are they? 

In the sciences and arts, those praised as geniuses were most often white men, of European origin. Perhaps this is not a surprise. It’s said that history is written by the victors, and those victors set the standards for admission to the genius club. When contributions were made by geniuses outside the club — women, or people of a different color or belief — they were unacknowledged and rejected by others.

A study recently published by Science found that as young as age six, girls are less likely than boys to say that members of their *gender*(性别)are “really, really smart.” Even worse, the study found that girls act on that belief: Around age six they start to avoid activities said to be for children who are “really, really smart.” Can our planet afford to have any great thinkers become discouraged and give up? It doesn’t take a genius to know the answer: absolutely not.

Here’s the good news. In a wired world with constant global communication, we’re all positioned to see flashes of genius wherever they appear. And the more we look, the more we will see that social *factors*(因素)like gender, race, and class do not determine the appearance of genius. As a writer says, future geniuses come from those with “intelligence, creativity, *perseverance*(毅力), and simple good fortune, who are able to change the world."

#### What does the author think of victors’ standards for joining the genius club? 
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| They’re unfair.  
B. |They’re conservative.
C. |They’re objective. 
D. |They’re strict.

#### What can we infer about girls from the study in Science?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A. |They think themselves smart. 
B.| They look up to great thinkers. 
C. |They see gender differences earlier than boys. 
D.| They are likely to be influenced by social beliefs.

#### Why are more geniuses known to the public?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Improved global communication. 
B. |Less discrimination against women. 
C. |Acceptance of victors’ concepts. 
D. |Changes in people’s social positions. 

#### What is the best title for the text?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A. |Geniuses Think Alike    |
|B. |Genius Takes Many Forms|
|C.| Genius and Intelligence  |
|D. |Genius and Luck|

### 第二节（共5小题；每小题2分, 满分10分）

根据短文内容, 从短文后的选项中选出能填入空白处的最佳选项。选项中有两项为多余选项。

Swap, Don’t shop!

You keep hearing about recycling, right? But it doesn’t end with bottles, cans, and paper. Clothing takes a huge amount of natural *resources*(资源)to make, and buying loads of new clothing(or throwing out old clothing) is not healthy for the environment. So what to do with all those perfectly-good-but-you’re-maybe-a-little-sick-of-them clothes piled on your bedroom floor? <u>**16**</u>. It’s the best way to get rid of your used clothes, score clothes from your friends, and have a party all at the same time.

A successful swap depends on the selection of clothes, the organization of the event, and, obviously, how much fun is had. It’s really easy to do! Here are a few pointers. 

* Invite 5-10 people so you have a nice selection. <u>**17**</u>, and there may not be enough things to choose from; more than that, and it becomes uncontrollable. 


* <u>**18**</u>. They should also prepare plenty of reusable bags to carry their "new" clothes home. 

* Put different types of clothing on different surfaces in the room. <u>**19**</u>. Place a few mirrors around your room so people can see how things look when they try them on. One of the ground rules of the swap should be that everyone must try on the clothes before they take them — things always look different when you put them on.


* Set a starting time. Maybe you say “go,” or turn on a certain song, or whatever. <u>**20**</u>. And don’t forget to put out some cookies and fruits. Remember, it’s a party!

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Less people than that 
B.| Hold a clothing swap 
C.| If two people are competing 
D.| Just keep music playing throughout 
E. |Donate whatever clothes are left over 
F.| Have everyone put their clothes in the right spots 
G. |Tell everyone to bring clean clothes in good condition

## 第二部分 语言知识运用（共两节，满分45分）

### 第一节（共20小题；每小题1.5分，满分30分）

阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。

It’s the seaside birds that deserve at least part of the blame for getting Nick Burchill blacklisted at the Fairmont Empress Hotel in Victoria, Canada.

Burchill was <u>**21**</u> at the hotel on business and planning to <u>**22**</u> some friends in the area. They had asked him to <u>**23**</u> some *pepperoni*(辣香肠) from back east. So he <u>**24**</u> a suitcase full of pepperoni. As he was <u>**25**</u> that it would be too warm, he <u>**26**</u> it out on the table near an open window. He thought his pepperoni was <u>**27**</u> and well chilled(冷却) and he <u>**28**</u>.

That’s when things went <u>**29**</u>. “I remember walking down the long <u>**30**</u> and opening the door to my room to find an entire flock of seagulls,” Burchill said in a recent letter of <u>**31**</u> to the 4-star hotel. "The seagulls immediately went <u>**32**</u>. They rushed to the window, 30 or 40 birds all trying to <u>**33**</u> at the same time, and pepperoni—everywhere. The curtains were falling down, the lamps were falling down, It was a real <u>**34**</u>.

Older and wiser now, Burchill chalked up the incident to youthful indiscretion(莽撞).

“I have <u>**35**</u> and I admit responsibility for my <u>**36**</u> ,” he said in the letter. “I come to you, <u>**37**</u>, to apologize for the-damage I had <u>**38**</u> caused and to ask you to <u>**39**</u> my lifetime ban from the hotel.”

His letter <u>**40**</u>. Banned from the hotel since 2001, Burchill is now welcome to come back, the Fairmont said.

|      | A.   | B.   | C.   | D.   |
| ---- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
|21. |studying     |staying      |looking     |packing|
|22. |visit       |help       |follow      |make|
|23. |sell       |have      |bring       |taste|
|24. |filled      |locked     |abandoned     |lost|
|25. |surprised    |pleased       |excited      |worried|
|26. |dug       |cleared        |cut       |laid|
|27. |delicious     |safe         |soft       |ready|
|28. |left       |nodded       |waited     |regretted|
|29. |far       |funny        |wrong      |blind|
|30. |beach       |driveway       |hall       |table|
|31. |application    |apology        |request      |invitation|
|32. |hungry      |dead      |missing     |wild|
|33. |wake up      |get out     |take off     |break in|
|34. |mess       |puzzle      |fight      |challenge|
|35. |recovered    |retired       |escaped     |matured|
|36. |suffering     |plans        |madness  |actions|
|37. |hands in pocket  |nose in the air     |hat in hand|feet on the ground|
|38. |indirectly     |deliberately      |cautiously   |secretly|
|39. |replace      |remember       |reconsider    |renew|
|40. |arrived     |worked       |ended      |disappeared|

### 第二节（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分）

阅读下面短文，在空白处填入1个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。

The Xi’an City Wall is the most complete city wall that has survived China’s long history. It <u>**41**</u>(build) originally to protect the city <u>**42**</u> the Tang dynasty and has now been completely restored (修复). It is possible <u>**43**</u>(walk) or bike the entire 14 kilometers.

We accessed the wall through the South Gate. The wall is 12 meters high and from here you can see streams of people moving inside and outside the City Wall.

After <u>**44**</u>(spend) some time looking at all the defensive equipment at the wall, we decided it was time for some action and what <u>**45**</u>(good) than to ride on a piece of history!

We <u>**46**</u>(hire) our bikes from the rental place at the South Gate. My bike was old and shaky <u>**47**</u> did the job. It took us about 3 hours to go all <u>**48**</u> way around the Xi’an City Wall. Supposedly you can do it in two hours, but we stopped at the different gates and <u>**49**</u>(watchtower) to take pictures or just to watch the local people going about their <u>**50**</u>(day) routines. 

## 第三部分 写作（共两节，满分35分）

### 第一节 短文改错（共10小题；每小题1分；满分10分）

假定英语课上老师要求同桌之间交换修改作业，请你修改你同桌写的以下作文。文中共有10处语言错误，每句中最多有两处。每处错误仅涉及一个单词的增加、删除或修改。

增加：在缺词处加一个漏字符号（∧），并在其下面写出该加的词。

删除：把多余的词用斜线（\）划掉。

修改：在错的词下划一横线，并在该词下面写出修改后的词。

注意：

1. 每处错误及其修改均仅限一词；

2. 只允许修改10处，多者（从第11处起）不计分。

Last week our teacher asked us to fill in a questionnaire. One of the questions are：Who will you go in times of trouble? Here are the results. Many students say they will talk to their friend or classmates because they’re of the same age and can understand each other. Some will turn out to their parents or teachers for help. Only a little choose to deal with the problems on our own. Their answers also show that they dislike talk to others. They kept very much to themselves. In my opinion, where in trouble, we should seek help from those we trust mostly.

### 第二节书面表达（满分25分）

假定你是李华。你校计划举办介绍中国传统文化的主题班会，并在英文网站展示。请你写一封邮件给外国朋友Chris，向他了解哪些中国传统文化更吸引外国友人。邮件内容包括：

1. 阐明写信事由；

2. 征求建议；

3. 表示感谢。

注意：

1. 词数100左右；

2. 可以适当增加细节，以使行文连贯。