# 2021年6月普通高等学校招生全国统一考试（浙江卷）　英语

## 第一部分 听力（共两节，满分30分）

做题时，先将答案标在试卷上。录音内容结束后，你将有两分钟的时间将试卷上的答案转涂到答题纸上

### 第一节（共5小题；每小题1.5分，满分7.5分）

听下面5段对话，每段对话后有一个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项，并标在试卷的相应位置。听完每段对话后，你都有10秒钟的时间来回答有关小题和阅读下一小题。每段对话仅读一遍。

例: How much is the shirt?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| £19.15.  
B.| £9.18.  
C.| £9.15.

答案是C

#### Why did the woman go to Mallorca?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| To teach Spanish  
B.| To look for a job.  
C.| To see a friend.

#### What does the man ask the woman to do?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
|A.| Take him to hospital.  |
|B.| Go to a class with him.  |
|C.| Submit a report for him. |

#### Who will look after the children?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Jennifer.    
B.| Suzy.     
C.| Marie.

#### What are the speakers going to do?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Drive home.  
B.| Go shopping.  
C.| Eat out.

#### What are the speakers talking about?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| How to fry fish.  
B.| How to make coffee.  
C.| How to remove a bad smell.

### 第二节（共15小题；每小题1.5分，满分22.5分）

听下面5段对话或独白，每段对话或独白后有几个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项，并标在试卷的相应位置。听每段对话或独白前，你将有时间阅读各个小题，每小题3秒钟，听完后，各小题将给出5秒钟的作答时间。每段对话或独白读两遍。

听第6段材料，回答第6、7题。

#### When does Gomez watch a football game on TV?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| When he fails to get a ticket. 
B.| When the stadium is crowded
C.| When his friends are too busy. 

#### How much did Gomez pay for the football game last time?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| $20   
B.| $25.   
C.|$50.

听第7段材料，回答第8至10题。

#### What did Alex do in the afternoon?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| He bad a walk. 
B.| He went hunting.   
C.| He planted trees.

#### What did Alex bring back?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Flowers.   
B.| Leaves.   
C.| Books. 

#### What was Bob doing when Alex saw him?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Fishing.  
B.| Taking pictures.
C.| Swimming.

听第8段材料，回答第11至13题。

#### What did David do on his most recent holiday?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| He had a boat trip
B.| He took a balloon flight.
C.| He climbed a mountain. 

#### What is on David’s list?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Gifts he needed to buy.
B.| Things he wished to do. 
C.| Dates he had to remember. 

#### Where does the woman suggest David go for his next holiday?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Australia.   
B.| California.   
C.| The Amazon. 

听第9段材料，回答第14至17题。

####  Why did Sarah make the phone call?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| To ask a favor.   
B.| To pass on a message.  
C.| To make an appointment. 

####  Where is Sarah now?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| In Brighton.   
B.| At her home.     
C.| At the Shelton Hotel. 

####  What time is Michael leaving his place tomorrow morning?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| At 7:40.  
B.| At 8:00. 
C.| At 8:20. 

####  What is the probable relationship between John and Sarah?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Neighbors. 
B.| Fellow workers.   
C.| Husband and wife. 

听第10段材料，回答第18至20题。

####  What do most people think is very important in spoken communication?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Pronunciation.  
B.| Vocabulary.  
C.| Grammar. 

####  Why should you listen to experts according to the speaker?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| To develop your reading fluency. 
B.| To improve your note-taking skills. 
C.| To find out your mispronunciations. 

####  What is the speaker’s last suggestion?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Spell out the difficult words.
B.| Check the words in a dictionary. 
C.| Practice reading the words aloud. 

## 第二部分 阅读理解（共两节，满分35分）

### 第一节（共10小题；每小题2.5分，满分25分）

阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出最佳选项，并在答题纸上将该项涂黑。

###### A

Leslie Nielsen’s childhood was a difficult one, but he had one particular shining star in his life—his uncle, who was a well-known actor. The admiration and respect his uncle earned inspired Nielsen to make a career(职业) in acting. Even though he often felt he would be discovered to be a no-talent, he moved forward, gaining a scholarship to the Neighborhood Playhouse and making his first television appearance a few years later in 1948. However, becoming a full-time, successful actor would still be an uphill battle for another eight years until he landed a number of film roles that finally got him noticed. 

But even then, what he had wasn’t quite what he wanted. Nielsen always felt he should be doing comedy but his good looks and distinguished voice kept him busy in dramatic roles. It wasn’t until 1980—32 years into his career—that he landed the role it would seem he was made for in Airplane! That movie led him into the second half of his career where his comedic presence alone could make a movie a financial success even when movie reviewers would not rate it highly. 

Did Nielsen then feel content in his career? Yes and no. He was thrilled to be doing the comedy that he always felt he should do, but even during his last few years, he always had a sense of curiosity, wondering what new role or challenge might be just around the corner. He never stopped working, never retired. 

Leslie Nielsen’s devotion to acting is wonderfully inspiring. He built a hugely successful career with little more than plain old hard work and determination. He showed us that even a single desire, never given up on, can make for a remarkable life. 

####  Why did Nielsen want to be an actor?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| He enjoyed watching movies.    
B.| He was eager to earn money.
C.| He wanted to be like his uncle.    
D.| He felt he was good at acting. 

####  What do we know about Nielsen in the second half of his career?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| He directed some high quality movies.   
B.| He avoided taking on new challenges.
C.| He focused on playing dramatic roles. 
D.| He became a successful comedy actor. 

####  What does Nielsen’s career story tell us?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Art is long, life is short.     
B.| He who laughs last laughs longest.
C.| It’s never too late to learn.    
D. |Where there’s a will there’s a way. 

###### B

We live in a town with three beaches. There are two parks less than 10 minutes’ walk from home where neighbourhood children gather to play. However, what my children want to do after school is pick up a screen—any screen—and stare at it for hours. They are not alone. Today’s children spend an average of four and a half hours a day looking at screens, split between watching television and using the Internet. 

In the past few years, an increasing number of people and organisations have begun coming up with plans to counter this trend. A couple of years ago, film-maker David Bond realised that his children, then aged five and three, were attached to screens to the point where he was able to say “chocolate” into his three-year-old son’s ear without getting a response. He realised that something needed to change, and, being a London media type, appointed himself "marketing director for Nature". He documented his journey as he set about treating nature as a brand to be marketed to young people. The result was Project Wild Thing, a film which charts the birth of the Wild Network a group of organisations with the common goal of getting children out into nature. 

“Just five more minutes outdoors can make a difference,” David Bond says. “There is a lot of really interesting evidence which seems to be suggesting that if children are inspired up to the age of seven, then being outdoors will be a habit for life.” His own children have got into the habit of playing outside now: “We just send them out into the garden and tell them not to come back in for a while.”

Summer is upon us. There is an amazing world out there, and it needs our children as much as they need it. Let us get them out and let them play. 

####  What is the problem with the author’s children?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| They often annoy the neighbours.   
B.| They are tired of doing their homework.
C.| They have no friends to play with.   
D. |They stay in front of screens for too long.

####  How did David Bond advocate his idea?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| By making a documentary film.   
B.| By organizing outdoor activities.
C.| By advertising in London media.   
D.| By creating a network of friends. 

####  Which of the following can replace the underlined word “charts” in paragraph 2?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| records   
B.| predicts   
C.| delays  
D.| confirms

####  What can be a suitable title for the text?
|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Let Children Have Fun   
B.| Young Children Need More Free Time
C.| Market Nature to Children   
D. |David Bond: A Role Model for Children

###### C

If you ever get the impression that your dog can “tell” whether you look content or annoyed, you may be onto something. Dogs may indeed be able to distinguish between happy and angry human faces, according to a new study.

Researchers trained a group of 11 dogs to distinguish between images(图像) of the same person making either a happy or an angry face. During the training stage, each dog was shown only the upper half or the lower half of the person’s face. The researchers then tested the dogs’ ability to distinguish between human facial expressions by showing them the other half of the person’s face or images totally different from the ones used in training. The researchers found that the dogs were able to pick the angry or happy face by touching a picture of it with their noses more often than one would expect by random chance. 

The study showed the animals had figured out how to apply what they learned about human faces during training to new faces in the testing stage. “We can rule out that the dogs simply distinguish between the pictures based on a simple cue, such as the sight of teeth,” said study author Corsin Muller. “Instead, our results suggest that the successful dogs realized that a smiling mouth means the same thing as smiling eyes, and the same rule applies to an angry mouth having the same meaning as angry eyes.”

“With our study, we think we can now confidently conclude that at least some dogs can distinguish human facial expressions,” Muller told Live Science. 

At this point, it is not clear why dogs seem to be equipped with the ability to recognize different facial expressions in humans. “To us, the most likely explanation appears to be that the basis lies in their living with humans, which gives them a lot of exposure to human facial expressions, and this exposure has provided them with many chances to learn to distinguish between them,” Muller said.

####  The new study focused on whether dogs can <u>**(　)**</u>.

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| distinguish shapes    
B.| make sense of human faces
C.| feel happy or angry    
D. |communicate with each other

####  What can we learn about the study from paragraph 2?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| Researchers tested the dogs in random order. 
B.| Diverse methods were adopted during training. 
C.| Pictures used in the two stages were different
D. |The dogs were photographed before the test. 

####  What is the last paragraph mainly about?

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| A suggestion for future studies.  
B.| A possible reason for the study findings. 
C.| A major limitation of the study  
D. |An explanation of the research method. 

### 第二节（共5小题；每小题2分，满分10分）

根据短文内容，从短文后的选项中选出能填入空白处的最佳选项。选项中有两项为多余选项

You’ve got mail…and it’s a postcard

Paulo Magalhaes, a 34-year-old Portuguese computer engineer, loves to open his mailbox and find a brightly colored picture of Rome’s Colosseum. Or Africa’s Victoria Falls. Or China’s Great Wall. <u>**31**</u>

“I often send postcards to family and friends.” he says to China Daily, “but you can imagine that after a while, you never receive as many as you send, and you realize that not everyone is into it. <u>**32**</u> “Seeking other like-minded souls, however, Paulo started looking in a somewhat unlikely place: online. Many would say the Internet is a place for people who have given up on the traditional postal service, but Paulo’s *hunch*(直觉)paid off. 

Today his hobby has developed into the website postcrossing.com, a social network that has grown to 575,217 registered users in 214 countries and regions since he started it 10 years ago. <u>**33**</u> Running the website has almost turned into a full-time job. 

Language is certainly a barrier for many people. For postcrossing to work worldwide, a common communication language is needed so that everyone can understand each other. As cool as it may be to receive a postcard written in Chinese, the concept doesn’t work if one doesn’t understand it. <u>**34**</u> So a common language is required and in postcrossing that’s English since it’s widely spoken. 

“Many people in China have limited exposure to English. <u>**35**</u> That said, we know of many postcrossing members, including Chinese, who have actually improved their English skills through their use of postcrossing,” Paulo says. 

|      | 内容 |
| ---- | :--- |
A.| And that’s totally fine.
B.| That makes it extra hard to learn and practice it.
C.| He likes to think of sending postcards as a family-friendly hobby.
D. |Many love to make a connection with someone from across the world. 
E. |On August 5, the number of postcards exchanged by members topped 31 million. 
F.| Similarly, if you speak only Chinese, receiving a card in Swedish takes part of the fun away. 
G. |In short, he loves postcards, and the excitement of getting a hand-written note from someone far away.

## 第三部分 语言运用（共两节，满分45分)

### 第一节（共20小题；每小题1.5分，满分30分)

阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项，并在答题纸上将该项涂黑。

My mother is 92. Unless I have to be out of town, each week I take my mother to do her <u>**36**</u> and visit the doctor, providing <u>**37**</u> and transportation. During the week, however, she likes to go to a nearby store to <u>**38**</u> some small things she needs. 

Last week she walked up to the store, but when she went to pay for her groceries, she was <u>**39**</u> about three dollars. The only <u>**40**</u> to pay for the groceries was to take off the <u>**41**</u> she could do without: a bottle of *rubbing alcohol*(医用酒精) and a bar off soup. By taking off these, she was able to <u>**42**</u> the new total to the amount of cash she had with her. 

At this store, people <u>**43**</u> and then go off to the side to <u>**44**</u> their own groceries. My mother was putting her groceries into shopping bags when a <u>**45**</u> came up to her and said, “Here are the things that you <u>**46**</u>.” handing her the rubbing alcohol and the <u>**47**</u>. My mother, who is never speechless, was speechless. She <u>**48**</u> for the woman’s name and address so that she could <u>**49**</u> her. The woman told her it was her <u>**50**</u> .

My mother was so <u>**51**</u> by her gesture that she decided to go back to the store and give the *cashier*(收银员) a five-dollar bill to keep on hand <u>**52**</u> the same happened to someone else if they didn’t have enough <u>**53**</u> for all of their groceries. 

So, whoever you are, thank you for the random act of <u>**54**</u> that not only helped my mother out, but <u>**55**</u> too. 

|      |  	A.    |  B.    |C.      |   D.   |
| ---- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
|36.| exercise  | housework   | cooking  | shopping|
|37.| reward  | medicine    | company | shelter|
|38.| return   | collect     | order     | buy|
|39.| short   | cautious    | wrong    | concerned|
|40.| aim  | way    | advice     | reason|
|41.| weight   | things     | mask     | glasses|
|42.| raise    | add      | bring     | switch|
|43.| show up  | call in     | check out    | sit down|
|44.| store    | select     | deliver    | bag|
|45.| stranger   | cashier    | friend     | doctor|
|46.| looked for  | talked about  | threw away   | put back|
|47.| receipt   | soap     | cash     | bottle|
|48.| asked   | waited     | cared     | searched|
|49.| repay   | trust     | recognize  | help|
|50.| luck    | chance    | gift      | turn|
|51.| surprised | amused    | touched    | convinced|
|52.| in case   | even if    | as though    | so that|
|53.| energy   | money    | space      | time|
|54.| faith    | courage   | kindness   | honor|
|55.| made her day | changed her mind| caught her eye | met her demand|

第二节（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分)

阅读下面材料，在空白处填入适当的内容（1个单词)或括号内单词的正确形式。

It doesn’t impress like George Washington’s plantation on the Potomac, but Lincoln’s home in downtown Springfield, Illinois, <u>**56**</u>(prove) irresistible to visitors since it opened to the public. Beautifully *restored*(修复) to its 1860 appearance, the house was Abraham and Mary Lincoln’s home for 17 years. In 1844 they bought it <u>**57**</u> $1,200 and some land from Charles Dresser, who performed their <u>**58**</u>(marry) ceremony in 1842. 

When the house was built, it was much <u>**59**</u>(small) than it is today. Mary’s niece wrote, “The little home <u>**60**</u>(paint) white. It was sweet and fresh. Mary loved it. She was extremely pretty, and her house was a reflection of <u>**61**</u>(she), everything in good taste and in perfect order.” 

Although Mary loved flowers, <u>**62**</u> she nor her husband was known as a gardener. A long-time neighbor said they never planted trees and only kept a garden for one year. Mary’s sister, Frances Todd Wallace, often came over <u>**63**</u>(plant) flowers in the front yard. 

 <u>**64**</u> Lincolns enlarged the house to a full two stories in 1856 to meet the needs of their growing family. Three of the four Lincoln sons were born here. After Lincoln was elected President of the US in 1861, they rented the house and <u>**65**</u>(sell) most of their furniture. 

## 第四部分 写作（共两节，满分40分)

### 第一节 应用文写作（满分15分)

昨天你参观了学校举办的学生国画作品展。请给校英文报写一篇宣传稿，内容包括：

1. 展览时间、地点；

2. 观展感受；

3. 推荐观展。

注意：1. 词数80左右；

2. 可以适当增加细节，以使行文连贯。



### 第二节 读后续写（满分25分)

阅读下面短文，根据所给情节进行续写，使之构成一个完整的故事，

My dad, George, only had an eighth grade education. A quiet man, he didn’t understand my world of school activities. From age 14, he worked. And his dad, Albert, took the money my dad earned and used it to pay family expenses. 

I didn’t really understand his world either： He was a livestock trucker, and I thought that I would surpass(超过)anything he had accomplished by the time I walked across the stage at high school graduation. 

Summers in the mid-70s were spent at home shooting baskets, hitting a baseball, or throwing a football, preparing for my future as a quarterback on a football team. In poor weather, I read about sports or practiced my trombone（长号). 

The summer before my eighth grade I was one of a group of boys that a neighboring farmer hired to work in his field. He explained our basic task, the tractor fired up and we were off, riding down the field looking for weeds to spray with chemicals. After a short way, the farmer stopped and pointed at a weed which we missed. Then we began again. This happened over and over, but we soon learned to identify different grasses like cockleburs, lamb’s-quarters, foxtails, and the king of weeds, the pretty purple thistle. It was tiring work, but I looked forward to the pay, even though I wasn’t sure how much it would amount to.

At home, my dad said, "A job’s a big step to growing up. I’m glad you will be contributing to the household." My dad’s words made me realize that my earnings might not be mine to do with as I wished.

My labors lasted about two weeks, and the farmer said there might be more work, but I wasn’t interested. I decided it was not fair that I had to contribute my money. 

注意：

1. 所续写短文的词数应为150左右；

2. 至少使用5个短文中标有下划线的关键词语；

3. 续写部分分为两段，每段的开头语已为你写好；

4. 续写完成后，请用下划线标出你所使用的关键词语。